A. Humanities and Social Sciences
  a. Humanities
    I. Ancient Cultures
      1. Prehistory and World Archaeology
      2. Greek and Latin Philology
      3. Ancient History
      4. Classical, Roman, Christian and Islamic Archaeology
      5. Egyptology and Ancient Near Eastern Studies
    II. History
      1. Medieval History
      2. Early Modern History
      3. Modern and Contemporary History
      4. History of Science
    III. Art History, Music, Theatre and Media Studies
      1. Art History
      2. Musicology
      3. Theatre and Media Studies
    IV. Linguistics
      1. General and Comparative Linguistics, Experimental Linguistics, Typology, Non-European Languages
      2. Individual Linguistics, Historical Linguistics
      3. Applied Linguistics, Computational Linguistics
    V. Literary Studies
      1. German Medieval Studies (Medieval German Literature)
      2. German Literary and Cultural Studies (Modern German Literature)
      3. European and American Literary and Cultural Studies
      4. General and Comparative Literary Studies; Cultural Studies
    VI. Social and Cultural Anthropology, Non-European Cultures, Jewish Studies and Religious Studies
      1. Social and Cultural Anthropology and Ethnology
      2. Asian Studies
      3. African, American and Oceania Studies
      4. Islamic Studies, Arabian Studies, Semitic Studies
      5. Religious Studies and Jewish Studies
    VII. Theology
      1. Protestant Theology
      2. Roman Catholic Theology
    VIII. Philosophy
      1. History of Philosophy
      2. Theoretical Philosophy
      3. Practical Philosophy
      b. Social and Behavioural Sciences
      I. Educational Research
      1. General Education and History of Education
      2. General and Domain-Specific Teaching and Learning
      3. Education Systems and Educational Institutions
      4. Educational Research on Socialisation, Welfare and Professionalism
    II. Psychology
      1. General, Cognitive and Mathematical Psychology
      2. Biological Psychology and Cognitive Neuroscience
      3. Developmental and Educational Psychology
      4. Social Psychology, Industrial and Organisational Psychology
      5. Personality Psychology, Clinical and Medical Psychology, Methodology
    III. Social Sciences
      1. Sociological Theory
      2. Empirical Social Research
      3. Communication Sciences
      4. Political Science
    IV. Economics
      1. Economic Theory
      2. Economic Policy, Applied Economics
      3. Accounting und Finance
      4. Management and Marketing
      5. Operations Management and Computer Science for Business Administration
      6. Statistics and Econometrics
      7. Economic and Social History
    V. Jurisprudence
      1. Principles of Law and Jurisprudence
      2. Private Law
      3. Public Law
      4. Criminal Law
      5. Criminology
      a. Biology
    I. Basic Research in Biology and Medicine
      1. Biochemistry
      2. Biophysics
      3. Cell Biology
      4. Structural Biology
      5. General Genetics and Functional Genome Biology
      6. Developmental Biology
      7. Bioinformatics and Theoretical Biology
    II. Plant Sciences
      1. Evolution and Systematics of Plants and Fungi
      2. Ecology and Biodiversity of Plants and Ecosystems
      3. Organismic Interactions, Chemical Ecology and Microbiomes of Plant Systems
      4. Plant Physiology
      5. Plant Biochemistry and Biophysics
      6. Plant Cell and Developmental Biology
      7. Plant Genetics and Genomics
    III. Zoology
      1. Systematics and Morphology (Zoology)
      2. Evolution, Anthropology
      3. Ecology and Biodiversity of Animals and Ecosystems, Organismic Interactions
      4. Sensory and Behavioural Biology
      5. Animal Physiology and Biochemistry
      6. Evolutionary Cell and Developmental Biology (Zoology)
  b. Medicine
    I. Microbiology, Virology and Immunology
      1. Metabolism, Biochemistry and Genetics of Microorganisms
      2. Microbial Ecology and Applied Microbiology
      3. Medical Microbiology and Mycology, Hygiene, Molecular Infection Biology
      4. Virology
      5. Immunology
      6. Parasitology and Biology of Tropical Infectious Disease Pathogens
    II. Medicine
      1. Epidemiology and Medical Biometry/Statistics
      2. Public Heatlh, Healthcare Research, Social and Occupational Medicine
      3. Human Genetics
      4. Anatomy and Physiology
      5. Nutritional Sciences
      6. Pathology
      7. Medical Informatics and Medical Bioinformatics
      8. Pharmacy
      9. Pharmacology
      10. Toxicology, Laboratory Medicine
      11. Anaesthesiology
      12. Cardiology, Angiology
      13. Pneumology, Thoracic Surgery
      14. Hematology, Oncology
      15. Gastroenterology
      16. Nephrology
      17. Endocrinology, Diabetology, Metabolism
	  18. Rheumatology
	  19. Dermatology
	  20. Pediatric and Adolescent Medicine
	  21. Gynaecology and Obstetrics
	  22. Clinical Immunology and Allergology
	  23. Reproductive Medicine, Urology
	  24. Biogerontology and Geriatric Medicine
	  25. General and Visceral Surgery
	  26. Cardiac and Vascular Surgery
	  27. Orthopaedics, Traumatology, Reconstructive Surgery
	  28. Dentistry, Oral Surgery
	  29. Otolaryngology, Phoniatrics and Audiology
  	  30. Radiology
	  31. Clinical Infectiology and Tropical Medicine
	  32. Medical Physics, Biomedical Technology
      33. Nuclear Medicine, Radiotherapy, Radiobiology
    III. Neurosciences
	  1. Developmental Neurobiology
	  2. Molecular Biology and Physiology of Neurons and Glial Cells
	  3. Experimental and Theoretical Network Neuroscience
	  4. Cognitive, Systems and Behavioural Neurobiology
	  5. Experimental Models for the Understanding of Nervous System Diseases
	  6. Molecular and Cellular Neurology and Neuropathology
	  7. Clinical Neurology; Neurosurgery and Neuroradiology
	  8. Human Cognitive and Systems Neuroscience
	  9. Biological Psychiatry
	  10. Clinical Psychiatry, Psychotherapy, Child and Adolescent Psychiatry
	  11. Ophthalmology
  c. Agriculture, Forestry and Veterinary Medicine
	I. Agriculture, Forestry and Veterinary Medicine
	  1. Soil Sciences
	  2. Plant Breeding and Plant Pathology
	  3. Plant Cultivation, Plant Nutrition, Agricultural Technology
	  4. Ecology of Land Use
	  5. Agricultural Economics, Agricultural Policy, Agricultural Sociology
	  6. Forestry
	  7. Animal Breeding, Animal Nutrition, Animal Husbandry
	  8. Veterinary Medical Science
C. Natural Sciences
  a. Chemistry
	I. Molecular Chemistry
	  1. Inorganic Molecular Chemistry - Synthesis and Characterisation
	  2. Organic Molecular Chemistry - Synthesis and Characterisation
    II. Chemical Solid State and Surface Research
	  1. Solid State and Surface Chemistry, Material Synthesis
	  2. Physical Chemistry of Solids and Surfaces, Material Characterisation
    III. Physical Chemistry
	  1. Physical Chemistry of Molecules, Liquids and Interfaces, Biophysical Chemistry
    IV. Analytical Chemistry
	  1. Analytical Chemistry
    V. Biological Chemistry and Food Chemistry
	  1. Biological and Biomimetic Chemistry
	  2. Food Chemistry
    VI. Polymer Research
	  1. Preparatory and Physical Chemistry of Polymers
	  2. Experimental and Theoretical Physics of Polymers
	  3. Polymer Materials
    VII. Theoretical Chemistry
	  1. Theoretical Chemistry: Electron Structure, Dynamics, Simulation
	  2. Theoretical Chemistry: Molecules, Materials, Surfaces
  b. Physics
	I. Condensed Matter Physics
	  1. Experimental Condensed Matter Physics
	  2. Theoretical Condensed Matter Physics
    II. Statistical Physics, Nonlinear Dynamics, Complex Systems, Soft and Fluid Matter, Biological Physics
	  1. Statistical Physics, Nonlinear Dynamics, Complex Systems, Soft and Fluid Matter, Biological Physics
    III. Optics, Quantum Optics and Physics of Atoms, Molecules and Plasmas
	  1. Optics, Quantum Optics and Physics of Atoms, Molecules and Plasmas
    IV. Particles, Nuclei and Fields
	  1. Nuclear and Elementary Particle Physics, Quantum Mechanics, Relativity, Fields
    V. Astrophysics and Astronomy
	  1. Astrophysics and Astronomy
  c. Mathematics
    I. Mathematics
	  1. Mathematics
  d. Geosciences
	I. Atmospheric Science, Oceanography and Climate Research
	  1. Atmospheric Science
	  2. Oceanography
    II. Geology and Palaeontology
	  1. Geology
	  2. Palaeontology
    III. Geophysics and Geodesy
	  1. Geophysics
	  2. Geodesy, Photogrammetry, Remote Sensing, Geoinformatics, Cartography
    IV. Mineralogy, Petrology and Geochemistry
	  1. Mineralogy, Petrology and Geochemistry
    V. Geography
	  1. Physical Geography
	  2. Human Geography
    VI. Water Research
	  1. Hydrogeology, Hydrology, Limnology, Urban Water Management, Water Chemistry, Integrated Water Resources Management
D. Engineering Sciences
  a. Mechanical and Industrial Engineering
    I. Production Technology
	  1. Metal-Cutting and Abrasive Manufacturing Engineering
	  2. Primary Shaping and Reshaping Technology, Additive Manufacturing
	  3. Joining and Separation Technology
	  4. Plastics Engineering
	  5. Production Systems, Operations Management, Quality Management and Factory Planning
	  6. Production Automation and Assembly Technology
    II. Mechanics and Constructive Mechanical Engineering
	  1. Engineering Design, Machine Elements, Product Development
	  2. Mechanics
	  3. Lightweight Construction, Textile Technology
	  4. Acoustics
  b. Thermal Engineering/Process Engineering
    I. Process Engineering, Technical Chemistry
	  1. Chemical and Thermal Process Engineering
	  2. Technical Chemistry
	  3. Mechanical Process Engineering
	  4. Biological Process Engineering
	  5. Systems Process Engineering
    II. Fluid Mechanics, Technical Thermodynamics and Thermal Energy Engineering
	  1. Energy Process Engineering
	  2. Technical Thermodynamics
	  3. Fluid Mechanics
	  4. Hydraulic and Turbo Engines and Piston Engines
  c. Materials Science and Engineering
    I. Materials Engineering
	  1. Metallurgical, Thermal and Thermomechanical Treatment of Materials
	  2. Materials in Sintering Processes and Generative Manufacturing Processes
	  3. Coating and Surface Technology
	  4. Mechanical Properties of Metallic Materials and their Microstructural Origins
	  5. Glass, Ceramics and Derived Composites
	  6. Polymeric and Biogenic Materials and Derived Composites
    II. Materials Science
	  1. Synthesis and Properties of Functional Materials
	  2. Biomaterials
	  3. Thermodynamics and Kinetics as well as Properties of Phases and Microstructure of Materials
	  4. Computer-Aided Design of Materials and Simulation of Materials Behaviour from Atomic to Microscopic Scale
  d. Computer Science, Systems and Electrical Engineering
	I. Systems Engineering
	  1. Automation, Mechatronics, Control Systems, Intelligent Technical Systems, Robotics
	  2. Measurement Systems
	  3. Microsystems
	  4. Traffic and Transport Systems, Intelligent and Automated Traffic
	  5. Human Factors, Ergonomics, Human-Machine Systems
	  6. Biomedical Systems Technology
    II. Electrical Engineering and Information Technology
	  1. Electronic Semiconductors, Components and Circuits, Integrated Systems, Sensor Technology, Theoretical Electrical Engineering
	  2. Communication Technology and Networks, High-Frequency Technology and Photonic Systems, Signnal Processing and Machine Learning for Information Technology
	  3. Electrical Energy Systems, Power Management, Power Electronics, Electrical Machines and Drives
	  4. Hardware Systems and Architectures for Information Technology and Artificial Intelligence, Quantum Engineering Systems
    III. Computer Science
	  1. Theoretical Computer Science
	  2. Software Engineering and Programming Languages
	  3. Security and Dependability, Operating, Communication and Distributed Systems
	  4. Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Methods
 	  5. Image and Language Processing, Computer Graphics and Visualisation, Human Computer Interaction, Ubiquitous and Wearable Computing
	  6. Data Management, Data-Intensive Systems, Computer Science Methods in Business Informatics
	  7. Computer Architecture, Embedded and Massively Parallel Systems
  e. Construction Engineering and Architecture
	I. Construction Engineering and Architecture
	  1. Architecture, Building and Construction History, Construction Research, Sustainable Building Technology
	  2. Urbanism, Spatial Planning, Transportation and Infrastructure Planning, Landscape Planning
	  3. Construction Material Sciences, Chemistry, Building Physics
	  4. Structural Engineering, Building Informatics and Construction Operation
	  5. Applied Mechanics, Statics and Dynamics
	  6. Geotechnics, Hydraulic Engineering
